# 7.6.0 (16 September 2021)

This Specify 7.6.0 update is being released simultaneously with
Specify 6.8.01. Both platforms require a database schema update for
existing Specify 6 and 7 installations. The new Specify database
schema is v2.9 updated from current production v2.7 (v2.8 skipped).

Here is the GitHub list of user-facing software issues (except for the
WorkBench) fixed or enhanced in this release: [Issues Fixed in the
Specify 7.6.0 Release](https://github.com/specify/specify7/issues?q=is%3Aissue+milestone%3A7.6.0+label%3Afor-release-notes).

See: [Specify Schema Update (v2.9): Additions, Changes, Virtual
Fields](https://www.specifysoftware.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/Specify-Schema-Update-v2.9-15-Sep-2021.pdf)
for a list of the data tables and fields added and changed in the
Specify v2.9 schema update, as well as new virtual, calculated fields
outside of the schema.

The highlight of this Specify 7 release is a new WorkBench
module. Much SCC software engineering during 2020 through mid-2021 was
focused on developing it. The WorkBench is an effective tool for
capturing new records from specimen digitization or for migrating old
records from legacy systems. We re-designed the WorkBench to be able
to import and upload more kinds of data into a Specify collection
database--with increased flexibility for mapping between external data
columns and Specify database fields; comprehensive error checking,
validating and editing of Data sets, and with efficient uploading of
data into the database. The new WorkBench has intuitive features for
‘everyday uploading’ and advanced settings for more complex mapping
and uploading workflows. Data sets created with Specify 6 or previous
versions of Specify 7 will not be compatible with the new WorkBench
and will be inaccessible in the new version.

This document: [Specify 7.6.0 Release Notes: New
WorkBench](https://docs.google.com/document/u/0/d/1P5rPb1ij4uMoQuUDFfzCyWTt1musX3Pj2QllOTLHPp8)
includes a structured walk-through of the operation of the new Specify
7 WorkBench on a public Specify7 test server.

Another major push in the development of Specify 7.6.0 was the
elaboration and documentation of Specify 7 server APIs. This was in
response to increasing community interest in API integrations and for
a global, digital object based, biodiversity data architecture.

Current Specify API documentation can be viewed on the demonstration
server at:

http://api.test.specifycloud.org/documentation/api/tables/
and http://api.test.specifycloud.org/documentation/api/operations/

Each installation of Specify 7.6.0 will have this API documentation
interface turned on by default and be accessible at the server URL
with the `/documentation/…` string postpended.

Last but not least with the concurrent 7.6.0 and 6.8.01 Specify
releases we are excited to announce the creation of the Specify
Network. With these updates, both Specify 6 and 7 are now integrated
with it. The Specify Network’s initial API-based integrations find and
return information held in aggregators and name authorities about
specimens in your collection.

For an introduction to the new [Specify
Network](https://www.specifysoftware.org/specify-network/) and its
current services see the Specify Network page on the Specify
Collections Consortium site.

